README.md, before:

# API Server

This Node.js server runs the API server for the Notes project.
The following sections have been divided into:

 - [Running on Google Cloud](#running-on-google-cloud)
 - [Running locally](#running-locally)
 - [Running tests](#running-tests)

This API server works closely with the [database server](/desmarais-patrick/notes-db-server-datastore) project using Google Cloud Datastore.

See also mother [notes](/desmarais-patrick/notes) repo for global information about the project.

<!-- TODO Overview of project structure. -->

## Running on Google Cloud

To run this server using a standard App Engine on Google Cloud,
you will need the following pre-requisites:

 - Google Cloud account with billing enabled
 - Google Cloud `PROJECT_ID`
 - Google Cloud App Engine app (Node.js, standard) created
 - Database server setup (see [notes-db-server-datastore](/desmarais-patrick/notes-db-server-datastore) repo)

Optionally, you may install *Node.js* and *Google Cloud SDK* locally to run commands otherwise run using *Google Cloud Shell*.

### Steps to deploy

First, open the *Google Cloud Shell* from the *Google Cloud Console* shell icon.

Then, make sure you're on the right project.
Here are some useful Shell commands:

 * `gcloud auth list`, to see which account is active.
 * `gcloud config list project`, to see which project is current.
 * `gcloud config set project <PROJECT_ID>`, to set current project.

Clone this project to your Shell instance:

```
git clone https://github.com/desmarais-patrick/notes-api-server-nodejs.git
```

Deploy the application:

```
gcloud app deploy --version <VERSION>
```

The `<VERSION>` may be specified as `0-0-1` for version 0.0.1.

After a few minutes, you should then be able to visit your project's URL (generally of the form `https://<PROJECT_ID>.appspot.com`) to see the API.

If you wish to deploy a version without making it active to receive traffic, say for testing deployment or modifications, you may use the flag `--no-promote`.

<!-- TODO Versioning considerations. -->
<!-- TODO Configuration considerations, ex. Datastore, demo environment. -->
<!-- TODO Describe demo version with rate limiting (1000 requests or 100KB per hour) + reset every hour. -->

---

Optionally, if you want to deploy using the *Google Cloud SDK* on your machine, a useful command to login to GCP services is:

```
gcloud auth application-default login
```

The above commands work too.

### Steps to clean up

If you wish to remove older versions, you may visit the App Engine dashboard section in the *Google Cloud Console*.

If you wish to clean things completely, you may delete the Google Cloud project itself. 😉

[Back to top ↑](#)

## Running locally

To run this server locally, you will need the following pre-requisites:

 - Node.js
 - [notes-db-server-datastore](/desmarais-patrick/notes-db-server-datastore) setup (local or remote)

<!-- TODO Configuration considerations, ex. Datastore emulator, remote Datastore, development environment, demo environment, test environment. -->
<!-- TODO Fixture considerations, ex. link to database project. -->
<!-- TODO Cleanup considerations, ex. remove emulator. -->

> Note: *Google Cloud Console* offers *Google Cloud Shell* which enables to edit and run code on a cloud instance. If you plan on using Shell, configurations will require a few tweaks to choose the correct datastore.

<!-- TODO Open API documentation, such as Open-API user interface. -->

### Steps

Install NPM dependencies:

```
npm install
```

Run API server using:

```
npm start
```

Visit `http://localhost:8080/` to start using the API.

> Note if the `PORT` environment variable is set on your system, replace `8080` by its value to start using the API.

> Also note that running the app locally, with the Google Cloud login and project setup, accesses your project's database. 😉

No documentation has been generated for this API yet. 😕

[Back to top ↑](#)

## Running tests

No tests have been implemented yet. 😕

<!--

Install dependencies:

```
npm install --dev
```

### Tests

Check code syntax:

```
npm run lint
```

Run unit tests:

```
npm run unit-tests
```

Run integration tests:

```
npm run integration-tests
```
-->

<!-- TODO Environment considerations, ex. run tests on dev, demo, prod. -->
<!-- TODO Describe what I mean by automated tests, level of details into writing tests. -->

[Back to top ↑](#)

Commit message:

Add README note for environments

README.md, after:

# API Server

This Node.js server runs the API server for the Notes project.
The following sections have been divided into:

 - [Running on Google Cloud](#running-on-google-cloud)
 - [Running locally](#running-locally)
 - [Running tests](#running-tests)

This API server works closely with the [database server](/desmarais-patrick/notes-db-server-datastore) project using Google Cloud Datastore.

See also mother [notes](/desmarais-patrick/notes) repo for global information about the project.

<!-- TODO Overview of project structure. -->

## Running on Google Cloud

To run this server using a standard App Engine on Google Cloud,
you will need the following pre-requisites:

 - Google Cloud account with billing enabled
 - Google Cloud `PROJECT_ID`
 - Google Cloud App Engine app (Node.js, standard) created
 - Database server setup (see [notes-db-server-datastore](/desmarais-patrick/notes-db-server-datastore) repo)

Optionally, you may install *Node.js* and *Google Cloud SDK* locally to run commands otherwise run using *Google Cloud Shell*.

### Steps to deploy

First, open the *Google Cloud Shell* from the *Google Cloud Console* shell icon.

Then, make sure you're on the right project.
Here are some useful Shell commands:

 * `gcloud auth list`, to see which account is active.
 * `gcloud config list project`, to see which project is current.
 * `gcloud config set project <PROJECT_ID>`, to set current project.

Clone this project to your Shell instance:

```
git clone https://github.com/desmarais-patrick/notes-api-server-nodejs.git
```

Deploy the application:

```
gcloud app deploy --version <VERSION>
```

The `<VERSION>` may be specified as `0-0-1` for version 0.0.1.

After a few minutes, you should then be able to visit your project's URL (generally of the form `https://<PROJECT_ID>.appspot.com`) to see the API.

If you wish to deploy a version without making it active to receive traffic, say for testing deployment or modifications, you may use the flag `--no-promote`.

### Environment considerations

If you plan on creating different environments, for example *development* and *demo* and *prod*, the easiest way to manage those environments with the Google Cloud Datastore seems to create different projects.

<!-- TODO Describe demo version with rate limiting (1000 requests or 100KB per hour) + reset every hour. -->

---

Optionally, if you want to deploy using the *Google Cloud SDK* on your machine, a useful command to login to GCP services is:

```
gcloud auth application-default login
```

The above commands work too.

### Steps to clean up

If you wish to remove older versions, you may visit the App Engine dashboard section in the *Google Cloud Console*.

If you wish to clean things completely, you may delete the Google Cloud project itself. 😉

[Back to top ↑](#)

## Running locally

To run this server locally, you will need the following pre-requisites:

 - Node.js
 - [notes-db-server-datastore](/desmarais-patrick/notes-db-server-datastore) setup (local or remote)

<!-- TODO Configuration considerations, ex. Datastore emulator, remote Datastore, development environment, demo environment, test environment. -->
<!-- TODO Fixture considerations, ex. link to database project. -->
<!-- TODO Cleanup considerations, ex. remove emulator. -->

> Note: *Google Cloud Console* offers *Google Cloud Shell* which enables to edit and run code on a cloud instance. If you plan on using Shell, configurations will require a few tweaks to choose the correct datastore.

<!-- TODO Open API documentation, such as Open-API user interface. -->

### Steps

Install NPM dependencies:

```
npm install
```

Run API server using:

```
npm start
```

Visit `http://localhost:8080/` to start using the API.

> Note if the `PORT` environment variable is set on your system, replace `8080` by its value to start using the API.

> Also note that running the app locally, with the Google Cloud login and project setup, accesses your project's database. 😉

No documentation has been generated for this API yet. 😕

[Back to top ↑](#)

## Running tests

No tests have been implemented yet. 😕

<!--

Install dependencies:

```
npm install --dev
```

### Tests

Check code syntax:

```
npm run lint
```

Run unit tests:

```
npm run unit-tests
```

Run integration tests:

```
npm run integration-tests
```
-->

<!-- TODO Environment considerations, ex. run tests on dev, demo, prod. -->
<!-- TODO Describe what I mean by automated tests, level of details into writing tests. -->

[Back to top ↑](#)
